apple signing documentation (#13)
bcgov/mobile-developer-guide: docs/apple_app_signing.md

> # Apple Signing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Apple signing
```

> To learn about code signing, please review Apple's [code signing](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/devfbe995ebf) documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn about code signing, review Apple's [code signing](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/devfbe995ebf) documentation. 
```

> This guide details how to work with signing certificates.

Reviewer: move to top as intro sentence

## Certificates
Apple provides two types of certificates:

* Development
* Distribution

> Both certificate types need the app's [bundle id](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids). It was created during the project's onboarding phase. Please see your Product or Technical Owner if you do not have the bundle id. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both certificate types need the app's [bundle id](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids). Remember, this was created during the project's onboarding phase. Talk to your Product or Technical Owner if you don't have the bundle id. 
```

 
### Development

> Developer accounts are set to have access to development certificates, identifiers & profiles.  You can access them within Xcode by setting the team to the Province of BC. Please review Apple's [Assign a project to a team](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev23aab79b4) documentation for details on how to do this. Turn on the "automatically manage signing" in the Signing & Capabilities -> Debug tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developer accounts are set up to have access to development certificates, identifiers and profiles. You can access them within Xcode by setting the team to the Province of BC. 

Review Apple's [Assign a project to a team](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev23aab79b4) documentation for details on how to do this. Turn on the "automatically manage signing" in the Signing and Capabilities -> Debug tab.
```

> Developers may install the app on their own device. This can be [setup through Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/distributing-your-app-to-registered-devices#Register-devices-automatically-in-Xcode). Please use [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com) if you need to test on many devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers may install the app on their own device. This can be [setup through Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/distributing-your-app-to-registered-devices#Register-devices-automatically-in-Xcode). Use [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com) if you need to test on many devices.
```

#### CI/CD build
If your app's code is in the [bcgov GitHub organization](https://github.com/bcgov), then use a [GitHub Action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) to build and sign your app. Refer to GitHub's [Installing an Apple certificate on macOS runners for Xcode development](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/deploying-xcode-applications/installing-an-apple-certificate-on-macos-runners-for-xcode-development) documentation for details. 

Send your GitHub repo's name to the [Developer Experience Team](contact.md). We will give it access to the certificate and password secrets. Your repo will contain the provisioning profile secret. 

![Diagram showing where secrets are stored. The signing certificate and its password are in the bcgov GitHub organization's secrets. The provisioning profile and keychain password are in the repo's secrets. The GitHub Action uses the secrets from both locations to sign the app.](assets/apple_signing.drawio.svg)

Setup the project to work with manual certificates. In the Signing & Capabilities -> Release tab in Xcode:

* Turn off "automatically manage signing" 
* Download/Import the provisioning profile for your app

> Contact the [Developer Experience Team](contact.md) if you are not using GitHub. We will discuss other options for using the distribution certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contact the [Developer Experience team](contact.md) if you are not using GitHub. We'll discuss other options for using the distribution certificate.
```

#### Laptop build

> Are you releasing your app from a developer's laptop? Let the [Developer Experience Team](contact.md) know so we can give you access to the distribution certificate. Then turn on "automatically manage signing" in the Signing & Capabilities -> Release tab in Xcode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are you releasing your app from a developer's laptop? Let the [Developer Experience team](contact.md) know so we can give you access to the distribution certificate. Then turn on "automatically manage signing" in the Signing and Capabilities -> Release tab in Xcode. 
```

Author: @kaitlyn-rosenburg - I've changed 'Team' to 'team', but I've left the '&' in 'Signing & Capabilities' because that is how the menu is title in Xcode.

> However, we encourage you to use a CI/CD pipeline to build and release your app. It allows for repeatable builds and removes reliance on a developer's computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage you to use a CI/CD pipeline to build and release your app. It allows for repeatable builds and removes reliance on a developer's computer.
```

> ## Provisioning Profiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Provisioning profiles
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
	<key>teamID</key>
	<string>TEAM_ID_HERE</string>
	<key>method</key>
	<string>app-store</string>
	<key>signingStyle</key>
	<string>manual</string>
	<key>stripSwiftSymbols</key>
	<true/>
	<key>uploadBitcode</key>
	<false/>
	<key>uploadSymbols</key>
	<true/>
	<key>provisioningProfiles</key>
	<dict>
		<key>ca.bc.gov.YOUR_APP</key>
		<string>YOUR_APPS_UUID_STRING</string>
	</dict>
</dict>
</plist>
```

The `provisioningProfiles` string value is the provisioning profile's UUID. To get the UUID run the following command:

```shell
security cms -D -i your_provisiong_profile.mobileprovision
```

Look for the `UUID` key in the output. Its value is the provisioning profile's UUID. 

### Example

The [bc-wallet-mobile](https://github.com/bcgov/bc-wallet-mobile/blob/main/.github/workflows/main.yaml) project has a complete GitHub Action that builds an iOS app. Use it as a reference for your project.

> Below is a basic GitHub Action that builds and signs an app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a basic GitHub Action that builds and signs an app.
```
